So we're gonna kinda move on to a new
section, which is called navigation.
For a lot of people,
I feel you don't think about navigation.
I can't tell you how many times I've
seen someone do this move on a Mac,
all the windows show up, and
then they click something.
And I get a cortisol response, I actually
go into the this anxiety ridden, space,
and I'll just be messed up for hours
afterwards be how do they live that life?
I'm not gonna say it the Twitter way, but
they live that life, and that's crazy.
And so I can't do it.
So navigation, I think, is pretty much the
most important aspect of your operating
system, comparatively to your dot files.
Long as you have a good environment and
you can get started really quickly and
you never have to think about that again,
that's good step one.
Step two is how do you get
to where you're going?
I think that's really important question
that people just don't ask, and
also don't optimize.
To the point where you're trying to solve
the point 5% the thing you do once a week,
or maybe even once a month.
To me, I don't really,
I attempt to optimize that, unless,
if it really is bothersome.
If I do it once a week, but
it takes me 30 minutes to do it,
maybe I need to think about
how can I make this faster?
But if I do it once a week and
it takes me one second to do it,
I have to click one extra button.
Just not worth my time, right?
And so
I always just try to solve that 99%.
And I want to be able
to do it in one button.
That's why I like to be able to go here or
here or here.
If you notice that when
I did the MF Ansible,
I was able to just kinda go there
really quickly at a nice, fuzzy find.
All of that falls under go back to my
previous project, which is my dev end.
All of that is navigation, right?
I wanna be able to go to any
project as fast as possible.
I don't wanna have to go through
this long process of navigating or
clicking a bunch of directories in
a file tree to go open up a new one and
then clicking open and
then a new instance comes up.
I don't wanna go through all that.
I just want it to be fast and
just right there, all right?
So probably the biggest
thing you need to get into,
which I don't know how
many of you have a win.
I see a bunch of mackintoshes
as they're called.
I think it's yabai y-a-b-a-i, yabai.
Is that correct, anyone?
There's windows managers.
Get a window manager.
It's single handedly the most
important thing you can do for
your life is getting a window manager.
Never place a window again.
And Mac's default window settings is
hands down like an LSD experience.
It makes no sense.
Everything you're doing
is completely bonkers.
You go up, it expands this way,
but not that.
Everything about it is
just super inconvenient.
There's no ways to place windows nicely.
Every time you go to anyone's desktop
that doesn't use a window manager,
it's just filled with 20 windows.
All slightly stacked on each other,
all in slightly different spaces,
all of slightly different sizes.
It's just like, why would you like,
I watched my wife do this, and she's like,
trying to find stuff, and I'm like, Babe,
you're gonna you're killing yourself.
Don't do this, don't spend all
that mental effort searching.
That's just so bad and so don't do that.
And so
if you're still placing Windows manually.
You're living in the Stone Age,
that's just a or
you're not even living in the stone
age they actually had it figured out.
You're living in the 1999 era, where they
thought everything should be a GUI and
everything should be fantastic, right?
Stop living in that era,
that's a terrible era to live in.
Window managers, it's not gonna be
a large part of this course, but
it's the basis for
how I approach everything here.
From here on out, I approach things in
a very, very simple set, or a very,
very simple way,
is I want everything to be these
progressive squares of getting closer.
It's kinda playing golf, right?
With golf, you start off with the big
club going towards the green.
When you're on the green, you're trying to
get within a trash can lid of the hole, or
in the hole when you're that close.
It's an easy put in, right?
You're just progressively
making your target smaller.
And so with a window manager, I want
to be able to have one button click and
I want to be able to go to say my browser,
Chrome.
I want to be able to go to
my terminal with one button.
I wanna be able to go to say my,
what happens if I have my Twitch streaming
stuff, my Twitch chat or
whatever over here.
I want each one of those to be one button,
and that's it.
So that way, when I'm coding,
I'm right here, when I want to be here,
I'm right here.
I'm a one monitor kinda person.
I do not like multiple monitors.
I find myself just getting super
distracted when I have multiple monitors,
because it's so easy to be man,
there's Twitter, right?
You just don't even have it as an option,
right?
And then it's just really easy.
That's me, I have lack self-control.
So I control myself through other means.
It's very easy for myself.
And so this is kinda the approach that
I want to take to everything I do.
If I can't get where I want to go
immediately, then that's like something
I want to fix, especially when I
do it hundreds of times a day.
The amount of times I go from editor to
window to editor to window to editor to
window.
I want that to be fast.
There's a good case to be made where maybe
that's where you actually want to be able
to have the whole split thing.
You can do that too.
I just typically don't do that,
I like that approach.
I don't know why, just feels good for me.
Maybe it's my StarCraft upbringing.
In Starcraft,
you have all these different groups.
And so I kinda have my different
groups for how I want to play and
how I want to position.
So you gotta have your sneaking
in the back of the minerals,
doing drops on people one.
Then you have also your main army, and
then you also have your high Templar one,
you gotta play your different moves there.
So that's the life I lived.
All right, so
what is a minute window manager?
There's a bunch of them.
Usually, they just simply
organize where your windows are.
I3 kinda wipes out your desktop, so it has
a lot more of a say over your operating
system than, say, other window
managers like Goodbye for Mac.
But there's a whole bunch of them, right?
Pop OS has its own,
I forgot what it's called.
I3, awesome window manager.
Left window manager, DWM.
There's one that has BSPWM,
or something like that.
There's an absolute mega amount of them.
For me, how I use it?
I only just want one thing, right?
So for me, there's not really
a big difference between them,
long as I can just go where I wanna go.
So I don't really care.
I don't care beyond that and
you'll notice here that I'm not giving you
really any recommendations,
because I don't think they're that big.
I don't spend a lot of time
with a bunch of windows,
constantly reorganizing windows.
I kinda have one thing that's open and
I don't change it again until I turn
off my computer, then I return on my
computer, and then I have to regroup,
go to each window and
be I want chrome on number two or
Firefox at number two and
do that and then that's it.
All right, so there you go,
I think that's it.
You can also have program opener so
if you're on Mac, you have magic finder.
If you're not on Mac,
you can get something like rofi or
dmenu that will open up and have
effectively the exact same experience.
It's a good move,
you should definitely have that, and
I'm sure there's 100 more of them,
because it's Linux, after all.
And everybody reinvents, I'm literally
telling you to reinvent the wheel also.
So if you invent your own,
is it the worst thing?
Probably not, but I don't know.
For me,
that's not something I want to reinvent.
So it feels a pretty small
surface area solve problem.
I don't give any recs,
because I just don't.
For me, it just doesn't matter.
I don't see how awesome window manager
is gonna make my life any better, or
left window manager, or DWM, none of those
are gonna make any of my life better.
So I just don't care.
So therefore,
figure out what you like use it.
I don't really care what it is.
And I don't think you should
care that deeply about it,
unless if you want to drive a lot of
stuff through your window manager.
And with I3 you can do that,
I could end up making it so
that I can have a bunch of special key
combos that could change a bunch of stuff,
or send out messages up to a server that
could say, send it down to my OBS stuff
live, and be able to change scenes like I
could do all of that and set that all up.
I just haven't and so maybe then I'd want
to explore a more robust Window manager,
but until then, this is perfectly fine.
So there you go.
That one's done.
I just wanted to get that in your head.
Go fast, okay?
So the terminal experience, which is
what I think is probably the most common
experience, the thing that we're gonna
be using a huge portion of our time as
developers, you often will
have a server running.
And if you're using something like
VS code, you have a server running.
And I know a lot of people that have to
have a second terminal open that they go
and they have all of their
terminal stuff on, and
then they have their editor that
they do all their editor stuff on.
So having a good terminal
experience is highly recommended.
And so we're gonna kinda go through
what I consider to be a great
terminal experience, which are these
six things I want sessions to last,
even if I close my terminal.
I should be able to close my terminal,
and it should just keep on running.
I want multiple sessions.
I want them to be based on directory.
I wanna be able to have every single
directory have its own set of windows and
tabs and everything.
So that way, I can have multiple projects
running if you need to have that.
You can have multiple
things in different areas.
I want tabs within sessions so
that kinda falls into this one,
which is I want to be able to have say,
Vin, some servers running a little scratch
area to be able to execute commands
in I want all of them together.
I want to be able to navigate to
any session with a name instantly.
I want to be able to fuzzy,
find over those sessions and
get to where I want to
be as quick as possible.
And I want to be able to run a script auto
magically whenever I navigate to a new
session.
So if I open up a new project, I want to
be able to execute a script that can set
up that project for
me the way I like to have it set up.
Coz there's a lot of times where you
have to run two or three things at once.
I'm sure there's a lot of
people here that have it so
that you have some sort of build service,
and then you also have some sort of local.
Cool server that also
needs to be running and
perhaps some other Docker
things that go off and run.
And then you end up having five
things that you're running.
So it's really nice if you navigate
somewhere, it's just like, and
it's running.
And now you just have to do your editing.
And so that's kinda my mentality here.
So I want to be able to have those
scripts to be unique per directory or
have a general one that just works.
Alright, so for this, I choose Tmux.
There's good arguments to be
made that Wes term actually,
is also a really good replacement for
Tmux or Zella J I just don't.
So instead, I use just Tmux and Ghosty.
Ghosty is pretty awesome.
The reason, actually,
why I use ghosty, which I think.
I think I say down, let me just make sure.
I don't say it around here.
Okay, maybe I say it later.
I do say it later, but
I'll just say it now.
I just think Mitchell Hashimoto
is really talented.
And so I just use his stuff because I
think he's a nice guy and that's it.
I use stuff for super lame reasons,
if I like somebody,
I will go out of my way to
just use the thing they make.
Coz that person's really cool.
I'm just gonna use it coz it's super cool,
right?
That's it and so I think Ghosty is cool.
Coz I think Mitchell's cool.
And so even though West term apparently
can solve both my terminal and
my TMUX, I just keep on using Ghosty
plus TMUX coz that's just the way I am.